Internal communication & awareness case study 

Julie is a senior director within Microsoft’s Internet of Things division. The deadline for her monthly business review is looming and she needs a new slide deck for her presentation. 
Her team has worked really hard in recent months. They are ready to propose that the company include two cutting-edge wearables in their smart product suite. The new products are so disruptive that their features, market research, sales forecasts, and big data opportunities, simply do not fit with the old deck. Only a fresh presentation perspective can do them justice.
It is crucial that Julie’s presentation go well because the director of corporate finance will be there. If she doesn’t impress him, her team will probably not get the funding they need to launch the products. 
Julie desperately needs help, but everyone is battling their own deadlines. Her only options seem to be to pull an all-nighter or two, or deliver a presentation that is not up to her standards. While contemplating how much she hates not being able to spend enough quality time with her family, she has a brainwave: she’ll hire a professional freelancer to design the new deck. 
While this seems like the perfect solution, Julie has more questions than answers about how to go about outsourcing the project. There are also important intellectual property and confidentiality issues to consider. 
In search of answers, Julie logs on to the company’s intranet and is delighted to find a SharePoint communication site dedicated to the company’s freelancer program. Everything she needs is right at her fingertips. 
She quickly learns that her project is a perfect fit for the freelancer program, because it is a one-off project. She watches the step-by-step training video that explains exactly how and where to find a suitable freelancer. She also reads several case studies written by colleagues who have faced similar circumstances. Julie is so grateful for the useful tips and insights they shared that she makes a note to return the favor and share her experience as soon as things settle down.  
Within an hour Julie has learnt how the intellectual property rights of the new deck are handled, how a non-disclosure agreement and limiting the types of information provided to a freelancer helps to prevent leakage of sensitive company information, what to look out for when evaluating a freelancer’s profile, how escrow payments benefit all parties, and a lot more. 
Julie then creates her Upwork profile, and has the option to post this job using Upwork’s “post a new job” option, or using Microsoft’s Expert Marketplace for PowerPoint. She decides to “post a new job”, and two hours later Julie has received many suitable applications. She hires an experienced candidate who has great reviews, and who happens to have worked one of her colleagues - what a find!
Two days later Julie is practicing her presentation with her new professional and polished slide deck. It is exactly what she was looking for and highlights the new products perfectly. 
<!--insert before and after pics-->
Julie “wowed” everyone at the business review and secured funding to launch the smart products! 
One of the best things about a SharePoint communications site is that it facilitates true collaboration. In this case, it was the perfect platform for information about the freelancer program, and allowed Julie to get up and running in a matter of hours. 

